<!-- RAG_METADATA: {"company_name": "KO", "ticker": "KO", "document_name": "KO Annual Report: Business and Risk Extract", "document_type": "annual_report_extract", "fiscal_year": 2024, "source": "https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/21344/000002134425000011/ko-20241231.htm"} -->
Item 1. Business” of this report. Changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, changes in enforcement priorities of regulators, and differing or competing regulations and standards across the markets where our products or raw materials are made, manufactured, distributed or sold, have in the past resulted in, and could continue to result in, higher compliance costs, higher capital expenditures and higher production costs, or make it necessary for us to reformulate certain of our products, resulting in adverse effects on our business. In addition, increased or additional regulations to limit and/or report carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change; to discourage the use of plastic materials, including regulations relating to recovery and/or disposal of plastic bottles and other packaging materials due to environmental concerns; to limit or impose additional costs on commercial water use due to local water scarcity concerns; or to address wastewater discharge to protect local bodies of water, have in the past and could continue to result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations for us and our bottling partners, which could affect our profitability, or may impede the production, distribution, marketing and sale of our products, which could affect our net operating revenues. The legal and regulatory landscape for certain new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, is uncertain and evolving, and our compliance obligations could increase our costs or limit how we may use these technologies. Failure to comply with various laws and regulations (or allegations thereof), such as U.S. trade sanctions, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Office of Foreign Assets Control trade sanction regulations and anti-boycott regulations; antitrust and competition laws; anti-modern slavery laws; anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; data privacy laws, including the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and China’s Personal Information Protection Law; tax laws and regulations; and a variety of other applicable local, national and multinational regulations and laws, could result in litigation or criminal or civil enforcement actions, including voluntary and involuntary document requests, the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, the suspension of production or distribution, costly changes to equipment or processes due to required corrective action, or the cessation or interruption of operations at our or our bottling partners’ facilities, as well as damage to our or our bottling partners’ image and reputation, all of which could harm our or our bottling partners’ profitability. 
RISKS RELATED TO FINANCE, ACCOUNTING AND INVESTMENTS 
Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
We earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using many currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In 2024, we derived $28.7 billion of net operating revenues from operations outside the United States. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Global events, including political instability, international conflicts, trade disputes, economic sanctions, inflation, increasing interest rates and emerging market volatility, and the resulting uncertainties, may cause currencies to fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar. Due to the geographic diversity of our operations, weakness in some currencies may be offset by strength in other currencies over time. We also use derivative financial instruments to further reduce our net exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, could materially affect our financial results. 

21

If interest rates increase, our net income could be negatively affected. 
We maintain levels of debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows, interest coverage ratio and percentage of debt to capital. We use debt financing to lower our cost of capital, which increases our return on shareowners’ equity. This exposes us to adverse changes in interest rates. When and to the extent appropriate, we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to interest rate risks. However, our financial risk management program may not be successful in reducing the risks inhe

Item 1A. Risk Factors” in Part I of this report as well as the heading “Operations Review” below for additional information related to our present business environment. As a result, management must make numerous assumptions, which involve a significant amount of judgment, when performing impairment tests of equity method investments and indefinite-lived intangible assets in various regions around the world. The performance of impairment tests involves critical accounting estimates. These estimates require significant management judgment and include inherent uncertainties. Factors that management must estimate include, among others, the economic lives of the assets, sales volume, pricing, royalty rates, cost of raw materials, delivery costs, long-term growth rates, discount rates, marketing spending, foreign currency exchange rates, tax rates, capital spending and proceeds from the sale of assets. The variability of these factors 

39

depends on a number of conditions, and thus our accounting estimates may change from period to period. These factors are even more difficult to estimate when global financial markets are highly volatile. As these factors are often interdependent and may not change in isolation, we do not believe it is practicable or meaningful to present the impact of changing a single factor. If we had used other assumptions and estimates when impairment tests were performed, impairment charges could have resulted. Furthermore, if management uses different assumptions in future periods, or if different conditions exist in future periods, impairment charges could result. The total future impairment charges we may be required to record could be material.
Equity Method Investments
Equity method investments are reviewed for impairment whenever significant events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment might not be recoverable. When such events or changes occur, we evaluate the fair value compared to our cost basis in the investment. The fair values of most of our Company’s investments in publicly traded companies are readily available based on quoted market prices. For investments in nonpublicly traded companies, management’s assessment of fair value is based on various valuation methodologies, including discounted cash flows, estimates of sales proceeds, and appraisals, as appropriate. We consider the assumptions that we believe a market participant would use in evaluating estimated future cash flows when employing the discounted cash flow or estimates of sales proceeds valuation methodologies. The ability to accurately predict future cash flows, especially in emerging and developing markets, may impact the determination of fair value. In the event the fair value of an investment declines below our cost basis, management is required to determine if the decline in fair value is other than temporary. If management determines the decline is other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded. Management’s assessment as to the nature of a decline in fair value is based on, among other things, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than our cost basis; the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Refer to Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of impairment charges, if applicable. 
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets 
Impairment tests for indefinite-lived intangible assets must be performed at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. Our Company performs the annual impairment tests as of the first day of our third fiscal quarter. We perform impairment tests using various valuation methodologies, including discounted cash flow models and a market approach, to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset or the reporting unit, as applicable. The ability to accurately predict future cash flows, especially in emerging and developing markets, may impact the determination of fair value. When performing these impairment tests, we estimate the fair values of the assets using management’s best assumptions, which we believe are consistent with those a market participant would use. The estimates and assumptions used in these tests are evaluated and updated as appropriate.
For indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, if the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment charge is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets, other than goodwill, rather than completing the impairment test. The Company must assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If the Company concludes
