<!-- RAG_METADATA: {"company_name": "AMD", "ticker": "AMD", "document_name": "AMD Annual Report: Business and Risk Extract", "document_type": "annual_report_extract", "fiscal_year": 2024, "source": "https://ir.amd.com/financial-information/sec-filings/content/0000002488-25-000012/amd-20241228.htm"} -->
ITEM 1.     BUSINESS 

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “intends,” “plans,” “pro forma,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: possible impact of future accounting rules on AMD’s consolidated financial statements; demand for AMD’s products; AMD’s strategy and expected benefits; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future; that AMD’s cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Agreement) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries, our commercial paper program, and our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund AMD’s operations including capital expenditures and purchase commitments, and acquisitions over the next 12 months and beyond; AMD’s ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD’s expectation that actions associated with the 2024 Restructuring Plan will be substantially completed by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2025; AMD’s expectation that based on management’s current knowledge, the potential liability related to AMD’s current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operation or cash flows; anticipated ongoing and increased costs related to enhancing and implementing information security controls; revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied which will be recognized in the next 12 months; a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMD’s revenue and receivables in the future; the expected implications from the development of the legal and regulatory environment relating to emerging technologies such as AI; AMD’s expectation that it will not pay dividends in the near future; AMD’s ability to achieve its corporate responsibility initiatives; expected future AI technology trends and developments; the expected benefits of AMD’s acquisition of Silo AI Oy (Silo AI); AMD’s anticipated acquisition of ZT Group Int’l, Inc. (ZT Systems) and the anticipated timing of the transaction; AMD’s intention to seek a strategic partner to acquire ZT Systems' manufacturing business; and AMD’s expectation to fund stock repurchases through cash generated from operations. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see “Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors” and the “Financial Condition” section set forth in “Part II, Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. 

Additionally, we make certain voluntary disclosures in this report and on our website, which are informed by various standards and frameworks (including standards for the measurement of underlying data), and the interests of various stakeholders. As such, these voluntary disclosures may not necessarily be “material” under the federal securities laws for SEC reporting purposes. Furthermore, much of this information is subject to methodological considerations or information, including from third-parties, that is still evolving and subject to change, and which AMD does not independently verify. For example, our disclosures based on any standards may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or applicable government policies, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control.

1

Table of Contents

References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “AMD,” “we,” “us,” “management,” “our” or the “Company” mean Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and our consolidated su

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously.

Risk Factors Summary

The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Economic and Strategic Risks

◦Intel Corporation’s dominance of the microprocessor market and its aggressive business practices may limit our ability to compete effectively on a level playing field. 

◦Nvidia’s dominance in the graphics processing unit market and its aggressive business practices may limit our ability to compete effectively on a level playing field.

◦The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. 

◦The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns.

◦The demand for our products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. 

◦The success of our business depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to our customers while supporting significant industry transitions.

◦The loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on us.

◦Economic and market uncertainty may adversely impact our business and operating results.

◦Our operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns.

◦If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses.

◦Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us.

Operational and Technology Risks

◦We rely on third parties to manufacture our products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected.

◦Essential equipment, materials, substrates or manufacturing processes may not be available to us.

◦We may fail to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products.

◦Our revenue from our semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products is dependent upon our semi-custom SoC products being incorporated into customers’ products and the success of those products.

◦Our products may be subject to security vulnerabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us.

◦IT outages, data loss, data breaches and cyberattacks could disrupt operations and compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate or cause significant damage to our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.

◦Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could materially adversely affect us.

◦Our ability to design and introduce new products includes the use of third-party intellectual property.

◦We depend on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software, memory and other computer platform components to support our business and products.

14

Table of Contents

◦If we lose Microsoft Corporation’s support for our products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on our products, our ability to sell our products could be materially adversely affected.

◦Our reliance on third-party distributors and add-in-board (AIB) partners subjects us to certain risks.

◦Our business depends on the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems.

◦Our products may not be compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware.

◦Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.

◦We may fail to maintain the efficiency of our supply chain as we respond to changes in customer demand.

◦We outsource to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions.

◦We may be unable to effectively control the sales of our products on the gray market.

◦Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business.

Legal and Regulatory Risks

◦Government actions and regulations may limit our ability to export our products to certain customers.

◦If we cannot realize our deferred tax assets, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

◦Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities, including as a result of tax regulation changes.

◦We are party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation.

◦We are subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals regulations, as well as a variety of other laws or regulations.

◦Evolving expectations from governments, investors, customers and other stakeholders regarding corporate responsibility matte
