<!-- RAG_METADATA: {"company_name": "NVDA", "ticker": "NVDA", "document_name": "NVDA Annual Report: Business and Risk Extract", "document_type": "annual_report_extract", "fiscal_year": 2024, "source": "https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1045810/000104581025000023/nvda-20250126.htm"} -->
Item 1. Business
Our Company
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to help solve the most challenging computational problems. NVIDIA is now a full-stack computing infrastructure company with data-center-scale offerings that are reshaping industry.
Our full-stack includes the foundational CUDA programming model that runs on all NVIDIA GPUs, as well as hundreds of domain-specific software libraries, software development kits, or SDKs, and Application Programming Interfaces, or APIs. This deep and broad software stack accelerates the performance and eases the deployment of NVIDIA accelerated computing for computationally intensive workloads such as artificial intelligence, or AI, model training and inference, data analytics, scientific computing, and 3D graphics, with vertical-specific optimizations to address industries ranging from healthcare and telecom to automotive and manufacturing.
Our data-center-scale offerings are comprised of compute and networking solutions that can scale to tens of thousands of GPU-accelerated servers interconnected to function as a single giant computer; this type of data center architecture and scale is needed for the development and deployment of modern AI applications.
The GPU was initially used to simulate human imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of video games and films. Today, it also simulates human intelligence, enabling a deeper understanding of the physical world. Its parallel processing capabilities, supported by thousands of computing cores, are essential for deep learning algorithms. This form of AI, in which software writes itself by learning from large amounts of data, can serve as the brain of computers, robots, and self-driving cars that can perceive and understand the world. GPU-powered AI solutions are being developed by thousands of enterprises to deliver services and products that would have been immensely difficult or even impossible with traditional coding. Examples include generative AI, which can create new content such as text, code, images, audio, video, molecule structures, and recommendation systems, which can recommend highly relevant content such as products, services, media, or ads using deep neural networks trained on vast datasets that capture the user's preferences.
NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing together hardware, systems, software, algorithms, libraries, and services to create unique value for the markets we serve. While the computing requirements of these end markets are diverse, we address them with a unified underlying architecture leveraging our GPUs and networking and software stacks. The programmable nature of our architecture allows us to support several multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same underlying technology by using a variety of software stacks developed either internally or by third-party developers and partners. The large and growing number of developers and installed base across our platforms strengthens our ecosystem and increases the value of our platform to our customers.
Innovation is at our core. We have invested over $58.2 billion in research and development since our inception, yielding inventions that are essential to modern computing. Our invention of the GPU in 1999 sparked the growth of the PC gaming market and redefined computer graphics. With our introduction of the CUDA programming model in 2006, we opened the parallel processing capabilities of our GPU to a broad range of compute-intensive applications, paving the way for the emergence of modern AI. In 2012, the AlexNet neural network, trained on NVIDIA GPUs, won the ImageNet computer image recognition competition, marking the “Big Bang” moment of AI. We introduced our first Tensor Core GPU in 2017, built from the ground-up for the new era of AI, and our first autonomous driving system-on-chips, or SoC, in 2018. Our acquisition of Mellanox in 2020 expanded our innovation canvas to include networking, enabled our platforms to be data center scale, and led to the introduction of a new processor class – the data processing unit, or DPU. Over the past 5 years, we have built full software stacks that run on top of our GPUs and CUDA to bring AI to the world’s largest industries, including NVIDIA DRIVE stack for autonomous driving, Clara for healthcare, and Omniverse for industrial digitalization; and introduced the NVIDIA AI Enterprise software – essentially an operating system for enterprise AI applications. In 2023, we introduced our first data center CPU, Grace, built for giant-scale AI and high performance computing, or HPC. With a strong engineering culture, we drive fast, yet harmonized, product and technology innovations in all dimensions of computing including silicon, systems, networking, software and algorithms. More than half of our engineers work on software.
The world’s leading cloud service providers, or CSPs, and consumer internet companies use our data center-scale accelerated computing platforms to enable, accelerate, develop,

Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters” for a discussion of this potential impact.
Macroeconomic Factors
Macroeconomic factors, including inflation, interest rate changes, capital market volatility, global supply chain constraints, tariffs, and global economic and geopolitical developments, may have direct and indirect impacts on our results of operations, particularly demand for our products. While difficult to isolate and quantify, these macroeconomic factors impact our supply chain and manufacturing costs, employee wages, costs for capital equipment and value of our investments. Our product and solution pricing generally does not fluctuate with short-term changes in our costs. Within our supply chain, we continuously manage product availability and costs with our vendors.

37

Table of Contents
Israel and Regional Conflicts
We are monitoring the impact of the geopolitical conflict in and around Israel on our operations, including the health and safety of our approximately 4,700 employees in the region who primarily support the research and development, operations, and sales and marketing of our networking products. Our global supply chain for our networking products has not experienced any significant impact. Some of our employees in the region have been on active military duty for an extended period and may continue to be absent, which may cause disruption to our product development or operations. We have not experienced significant impact or expense to our business; however, if the conflict is further extended or expanded, it could impact future product development, operations, and revenue or create other uncertainty for our business.
Fiscal Year 2025 Summary

 Year Ended
 Jan 26, 2025Jan 28, 2024Change

($ in millions, except per share data)
Revenue$130,497 $60,922 Up 114%
Gross margin75.0 %72.7 %Up 2.3 pts
Operating expenses$16,405 $11,329 Up 45%
Operating income$81,453 $32,972 Up 147%
Net income$72,880 $29,760 Up 145%
Net income per diluted share$2.94 $1.19 Up 147%
We specialize in markets where our computing platforms can provide tremendous acceleration for applications. These platforms incorporate processors, interconnects, software, algorithms, systems, and services to deliver unique value. Our platforms address four large markets where our expertise is critical: Data Center, Gaming, Professional Visualization, and Automotive.
Revenue for fiscal year 2025 was $130.5 billion, up 114% from a year ago.
Data Center revenue for fiscal year 2025 was up 142% from a year ago. The strong year-on-year growth was driven by demand for our Hopper architecture accelerated computing platform used for large language models, recommendation engines, and generative AI applications. We began shipping production systems of the Blackwell architecture in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025.
Gaming revenue for fiscal year 2025 was up 9% from a year ago, driven by sales of our GeForce RTX 40 Series GPUs. 
Professional Visualization revenue for fiscal year 2025 was up 21% from a year ago, driven by the continued ramp of Ada RTX GPU workstations for use cases such as generative AI-powered design, simulation, and engineering.
Automotive revenue for fiscal year 2025 was up 55% from a year ago, driven by sales of our self-driving platforms.
Gross margin increased in fiscal year 2025 driven by a higher mix of Data Center revenue. 
Operating expenses for fiscal year 2025 were up 45% from a year ago, driven by higher compensation and benefits expenses due to employee growth and compensation increases, and engineering development, compute and infrastructure costs for new product introductions. 

Critical Accounting Estimates
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingencies. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have critical accounting estimates in the areas of inventories, income taxes, and revenue recognition. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of significant accounting policies.
Inventories
We charge cost of sales for inventory provisions to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or for obsolete or excess inventory, and for excess product purchase commitments. Most of our inventory provisions relate to excess quantities of products or components, based on our inventory levels and future product purchase 

38

Table of Contents
commitments compared to assumptions about futu
